## Compiling and running tests
Now that we've defined our tests we need to compile them into an executable file using cxxtestgen so that we can execute our tests and run them. We do this by adding a new rule to our make file. You can use the `Copy to Editor` button or write it yourself by clicking: `devops-executable-tutorial/src/makefile`{{open}}.

<pre class="file" data-filename="devops-executable-tutorial/src/makefile" data-target="insert" data-marker='# Future test rule'>
# Future test rule
tests: complex.cpp complexTests.cpp
cxxtestgen --error-printer -o testrunner.cpp complexTests.cpp
$(CC) $(flags) -c complex.cpp -o complex.o
$(CC) $(flags) -o simple_test.out -I cxxtest/ \testrunner.cpp complex.o

</pre>

**Note:** In the makefile, every line of code where a rule should execute needs to start with a tab. For this tutorial this needs to be done manually for every rule added. For instance the line `$(CC) $(flags) -c complex.cpp -o complex.o` needs to be tabbed in. **This can not be done in the UI** and is easiest done in the end of this step by using vim. In the terminal type `vim makefile`{{execute}} when vim has opened press `i` to start editing the file(Tab in each rule). This is done correctly when the rule is highlighted purple. When you are done tabbing in all the rules you can save the file and exit vim by first pressing the `esc` button, then type `:wq` and press `enter`. Editing the file in vim desyncs the makeifle in the UI, the best solution for avoiding issues with this is to close the makefile in the UI after its been edited in vim.(Sorry for the inconvenience, this seems to be caused by a katacode error in interpreting tabs correctly for makefiles)

The rule might look daunting at first glance but lets break it down. The first row uses cxxtestgen to compile our testsuite into a **runner** file. The runner file is a `.cpp` file and is automatically generated by CxxTest and runs our tests. The next line is just the same line of code we use in our previously defined `complex` rule, it simply compiles our implementation code into an object file that the linker can use in the next line. In the final line we compile our testrunner into an executable file called `simple_test.out`. When we compile the runner we also have to include our object file `complex.o` so that the linker can link the executable code in `complex.o` to all out uses of the Complex class in the testsuite.

## Running the tests 
To run the tests you simply have to compile and execute the `simple_test.out` file! This can be done by running: `make tests && ./simple_test.out`{{execute}}